69th Regiment Armory	The 69th Regiment Armory located at 68 Lexington Avenue between East 25th and 26th Streets in Manhattan, New York City is a historical building which began construction in 1904 and was completed in 1906.[1][4] The building is still used to house the U.S. 69th Infantry Regiment, as well as for the presentation of special events. The armory was designed by the firm of Hunt & Hunt, and was the first armory built in New York City to not be modeled on a medieval fortress; instead, it was designed in the Beaux-Arts style.[4] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1965,[3][5] and a New York City landmark in 1983.[4]The Armory may be best known as the site of the controversial 1913 Armory Show, in which modern art was first publicly presented in the United States.[4] It has a 5,000 seat arena that is used for sporting and entertainment events such as the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.
African Burial Ground	African Burial Ground National Monument at Duane Street and African Burial Ground Way (Elk Street) in the Civic Center district of Lower Manhattan, New York City preserves a site containing the remains of more than 400 Africans buried during the late 17th and 18th centuries in a portion of what was the largest colonial-era cemetery for people of African descent, some free, most enslaved. Historians estimate there may have been 15,000–20,000 burials in what was called the "Negroes Burial Ground" in the 1700s. The site's excavation and study was called "the most important historic urban archeological project in the United States."[5] The discovery highlighted the forgotten history of African slaves in colonial and federal New York City, who were integral to its development. By the American Revolutionary War, they constituted nearly a quarter of the population in the city, which had the second largest number of slaves in the nation after Charleston, South Carolina. Scholars and African-American civic activists joined to publicize the importance of the site and lobby for its preservation. In 1993 the site was designated a National Historic Landmark and in 2006 a National Monument. In 2003 Congress appropriated funds for a memorial at the site and directed redesign of the federal building to allow for this. A design competition attracted more than 60 proposals for a design. The memorial was dedicated in 2007 to commemorate the role of Africans and African Americans in colonial and federal New York City, and in United States history. A visitor center opened in 2010 to provide interpretation of the site and African-American history in New York.
Admiral David Glasgow Farragut Gravesite	The Admiral David Glasgow Farragut Gravesite is the final resting place of David Glasgow Farragut, the first rear admiral, vice admiral, and four-star admiral of the United States Navy. He was most well known for his order to "Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead." The granite and marble monument resembling a mast marks not only his burial site, but that of his wife and children. It was listed as a National Historic Landmark on the National Register of Historic Places in October 16, 2012. It is located in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, itself a National Historic Landmark.
Ambrose (lightship)	The United States Lightship LV-87 (Ambrose) is a lightship built 1907 and served at the Ambrose Channel station until 1932. She would be the first lightship to serve in the relocated position nearer the center of the channel. In 1921 would have the first radio beacon installed in the United States. This greatly assisted ships navigating the congested Ambrose Channel in dense fog. She would also be the last steam-powered vessel to hold the Ambrose Channel post. After the end of her Ambrose Channel assignment in 1932, LV-87 was assigned to various posts which included being used as an examination vessel during World War II. Although her final post was at the Scotland Station she is commonly known by the name of her most famous station, Ambrose.LV-87 was decommissioned on March 4, 1966 from the Coast Guard after 59 years of service. In 1968 she was given to the South Street Seaport Museum in Lower Manhattan. Currently she is moored at Pier 16 on the East River and is used as a floating exhibit.[3] In 1989, the lightship was declared a National Historic Landmark.
American Stock Exchange	NYSE MKT LLC, formerly known as the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), is an American stock exchange situated in New York City, New York. AMEX was previously a mutual organization, owned by its members. Until 1953, it was known as the New York Curb Exchange. On January 17, 2008, NYSE Euronext announced it would acquire the AMEX for $260 million in stock; on October 1, 2008, NYSE Euronext completed the acquisition.[4] Before the closing of the acquisition, NYSE Euronext announced that the AMEX would be integrated with the Alternext European small-cap exchange and renamed the NYSE Alternext U.S. In March 2009, NYSE Alternext U.S. was changed to NYSE Amex Equities. On May 10, 2012, NYSE Amex Equities changed its name to NYSE MKT LLC
Louis Armstrong House	The Louis Armstrong House was the home of Louis Armstrong and his wife Lucille Wilson from 1943 until his death in 1971. Lucille gave ownership of it to the city of New York in order to create a museum focused on her husband. It was designated a New York City Landmark in 1988[1] and declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976. It is located at 34-56 107th Street near 37th Avenue, in Corona, Queens, New York City.[3][4] The house is now a museum that presents concerts and educational programs, operates as a historic house museum and makes materials in its archives of writings, books, recordings and memorabilia available to the public for research.
Chester A. Arthur House	The Chester A. Arthur Home, also known as Chester A. Arthur House, was the residence of the 21st President of the United States, Chester A. Arthur, both before and after his rise to national fame. Located at 123 Lexington Avenue in New York City, Arthur spent most of his adult life living in the residence. Serving as Vice-President for President James Garfield, he retreated to this house after the July 2, 1881 attempted assassination of Garfield. Garfield did not die until September 19, and then Arthur took the oath of office in this building. A commemorative bronze plaque was placed inside the building in 1964 by the Native New Yorkers Historical Society and New York Life Insurance. The house was designated a National Historic Landmark on January 12, 1965. The residence has undergone many changes. Today, the building houses a Mediterranean grocery store on the first two floors and apartments on the top three.
Alice Austen House	The Alice Austen House, also known as Clear Comfort, is located at 2 Hylan Boulevard in the Rosebank section of Staten Island, New York City, New York.[4] It was home of Alice Austen, a photographer, for most of her lifetime, and is now a museum and a member of the Historic House Trust.[5] The house is administered by the "Friends of Alice Austen", a volunteer group.[6] Today, the Alice Austen House hosts many school programs, including photography summer camps and day trips for classes of all age groups. 
Bartow-Pell Mansion	The Bartow-Pell Mansion is a New York City landmark and museum located in northern portion of Pelham Bay Park in The Bronx. Originally the Robert and Marie Lorillard Bartow House, the residence and estate date back to 1654. The Lords of the Manor of Pelham once owned the home which was later enlarged, renovated and remodeled in the Federal style. The current house was built between 1836 and 1842. Ownership of the house passed between the Bartow and Pell families until it was finally sold to the City of New York in 1888 by descendants of the Bartow family. The mansion remained unused and empty for years before being leased by the City of New York to Mrs. Charles Frederick Hoffman, Jr. ( Zelia Krumbhaar Preston ) ( April 1, 1867 - Sept. 14, 1929 )[4][5] in 1914 to house the International Garden Club, Inc., an organization she had founded to promote formal gardens. The club has since extended its purpose to include the preservation and restoration of the home. The exterior of the mansion was restored and the formal gardens were constructed from 1914 to 1917/.[7][8] In 1936, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia used the mansion as his summer residence while nearby Orchard Beach was built. The interior of the mansion, furnished with period antiques, reopened to the public as a museum in 1946. The property also includes the Pell family burial plot.The property was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1978.[2][9] The mansion and a carriage house are included. Since 2008, Adventures in Preservation has been helping to preserve Bartow-Pell Mansion, a project that has been partly funded by a grant from the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Fund for Historic Interiors of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Bayard-Condict Building	The Bayard–Condict Building at 65 Bleecker Street between Broadway and Lafayette Street, at the head of Crosby Street in the NoHo neighbourhood of Manhattan, New York City is the only work of architect Louis Sullivan in New York City. It was built between 1897 and 1899 in the Chicago School style; the associate architect was Lyndon P. Smith. The building was originally known as the Condict Building before being renamed the Bayard Building.[3] The building was considered to be a radical design for its time, since it contravened the strictures of American Renaissance architecture which were the accepted status quo, but had little influence on architectural design in New York City, because of its location in the industrial area that Bleecker Street was during that period.[3] It is located in the NoHo Historic District. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1975,[4] and has been a National Historic Landmark since 1976.
Bell Laboratories Building	463 West Street is a 13 building complex located on the block between West Street, Washington Street, Bank Street, and Bethune Street in Manhattan, New York. It was originally the home of Bell Telephone Laboratories between 1898 and 1966. For a time, it was the largest industrial research center in the United States. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and further designated as a National Historic Landmark, as Bell Telephone Laboratories. Many early technological inventions were developed here including automatic telephone panel switches, the first experimental talking movies (1923), black and white and color TV, video telephones, radar, the vacuum tube, medical equipment, the development of the phonograph record[3] and the first commercial broadcasts including the first broadcast of a baseball game and the New York Philharmonic with Toscanini conducting. It also served as the headquarters for the company from 1925 to the early 1960s. The site was also the home for part of the Manhattan Project during World War II. After two years of renovations by Richard Meier, the building was reopened in 1970 as Westbeth Artists Community for low to middle income artists. In addition to affordable artist housing, the complex contains a theatre, an art gallery, and a synagogue. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1975  
Bronx Community College	The Bronx Community College of The City University of New York (BCC) is a community college in the City University of New York system located in the University Heights neighborhood of The Bronx.
Brooklyn Bridge	The Brooklyn Bridge is a bridge in New York City and is one of the oldest suspension bridges in the United States. Completed in 1883, it connects the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn by spanning the East River. It has a main span of 1,595.5 feet (486.3 m), and was the first steel-wire suspension bridge constructed. Originally referred to as the New York and Brooklyn Bridge and as the East River Bridge, it was dubbed the Brooklyn Bridge, a name from an earlier January 25, 1867, letter to the editor of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle,[7] and formally so named by the city government in 1915. Since its opening, it has become an icon of New York City, and was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1964[6][8][9] and a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 1972
Brooklyn Heights Historic District	The Brooklyn Heights Historic District is a historic district that comprises much of the Brooklyn Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City. It was named a National Historic Landmark in January, 1965,[2] designated a New York City Landmark in November, 1965,[3] and added to the National Register of Historic Places in October, 1966.[4] The district is bounded by Cadman Plaza West (Old Fulton Street) on the north, the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway on the west, Atlantic Avenue on the south, and an irregular line that partly follows Clinton and Henry Streets on the east.[3] Grace Episcopal Church lies within the district. It was designed by Richard Upjohn. The first service held at the church was in 1848.
Brooklyn Historical Society Building	The Brooklyn Historical Society (BHS), founded in 1863, is a museum, library, and educational center preserving and encouraging the study of Brooklyn' s 400-year past.
Ralph Johnson Bunche House	Ralph Johnson Bunche House, a home of American diplomat Ralph Bunche, is a National Historic Landmark located in the Kew Gardens neighborhood of Queens, New York. It is located at 115-24 Grosvenor Road. Ralph Bunche helped found the United Nations in 1945, and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950 for mediating armistice agreements between Israel and its neighboring countries. In 1952, he and his wife Ruth Bunche used the award money that came with the Nobel prize to buy this house for themselves and their three children. He lived there until his death in 1971, and his wife lived there until hers in 1988. The house was designed by Koch & Wagner and is in the neo-Tudor style.[3] The house was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.[2][4][5] The house is also a New York City landmark.[3] A different home of Ralph Bunche in Washington, D.C., where he and his family lived from 1941-1947, is also listed on the National Register of Historic Places
Carnegie Hall	Carnegie Hall is a concert venue in Midtown Manhattan in New York City, United States, located at 881 Seventh Avenue, occupying the east stretch of Seventh Avenue between West 56th Street and West 57th Street, two blocks south of Central Park. Designed by architect William Burnet Tuthill and built by philanthropist Andrew Carnegie in 1891, it is one of the most prestigious venues in the world for both classical music and popular music. Carnegie Hall has its own artistic programming, development, and marketing departments, and presents about 250 performances each season. It is also rented out to performing groups. The hall has not had a resident company since 1962, when the New York Philharmonic moved to Lincoln Center's Philharmonic Hall (renamed Avery Fisher Hall in 1973). Carnegie Hall has 3,671 seats, divided among its three auditoriums. Carnegie Hall presented about 200 concerts in the 2008–2009 season, up 3 percent from the previous year. Its stages were rented for an additional 600 events in the 2008–2009 season.
Andrew Carnegie Mansion	The Andrew Carnegie Mansion is located at 2 East 91st Street at Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, New York City, New York. Andrew Carnegie built his mansion in 1903 and lived there until his death in 1919; his wife, Louise, lived there until her death in 1946. The building is now the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, part of the Smithsonian Institution. The surrounding neighborhood on Manhattan's Upper East Side has come to be called Carnegie Hill. The mansion was named a National Historic Landmark in 1966.
Central Park	Central Park is an urban park in Manhattan in New York City. The park was initially opened in 1857, on 778 acres (315 ha) of city-owned land (it is 843 acres today). In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan. Construction began the same year, continued during the American Civil War, and was completed in 1873. Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States. Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government. The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5% of Central Park's $37.5 million annual budget, and employs 80.7% of the park's maintenance staff.
Central Synagogue	The Central Synagogue (Congregation Ahavath Chesed) is located at 652 Lexington Avenue on the corner of E 55th Street, Manhattan, New York City, New York. Built in 1872 in the Moorish Revival style as a copy of Budapest's Dohány Street Synagogue,[5] it pays homage to the Jewish existence in Moorish Spain.[1] It has been in continuous use by a congregation longer than any other in the city.[6][7] The building was designed by Henry Fernbach. The dramatic style of the building was the subject of much debate during the construction. Some felt its excess would inspire envy and stand in the way of assimilation.[8] It is among the oldest synagogue buildings still standing in the United States.[9] It was designated a National Historic Landmark on May 15, 1975.[3][6] On Wednesdays at 12:45 p.m. a docent conducts a free tour, which begins at the front entrance. The building was restored by 2001 in the original style after an accidental fire in August 1998.[10] The roof and its supports were destroyed as a result of the fire. During this fire, the firefighter's sensitivity for the building saved all but the central pane in the rose window that dominates the eastern (Lexington Avenue) wall. The marble plaques on the north wall of the foyer honor the firefighters of the 8th Battalion of the New York City Fire Department. The synagogue owns the Salem Fields Cemetery, Brooklyn
Chamber of Commerce Building	The Chamber of Commerce Building located at 65 Liberty Street between Nassau Street and Broadway in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City was built in 1900-01 to house the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York, which occupied it until 1980.[2] The building was restored in 1990-91 by Haines Lundberg Waehler and became the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.[3] The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966,[2] and a National Historic Landmark in 1977.[4][5][6] Original and reprographic architectural drawings for this building are held in the Department of Drawings & Archives at Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library, Columbia University
Chrysler Building	The Chrysler Building is an Art Deco style skyscraper in New York City, located on the east side of Manhattan in the Turtle Bay area at the intersection of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. At 1,046 feet (319 m),[1][6][7] the structure was the world's tallest building for 11 months before it was surpassed by the Empire State Building in 1931.[8] It is still the tallest brick building in the world, albeit with an internal steel skeleton. After the destruction of the World Trade Center, it was again the second-tallest building in New York City until December 2007, when the spire was raised on the 1,200-foot (365.8 m) Bank of America Tower, pushing the Chrysler Building into third position. In addition, The New York Times Building, which opened in 2007, is exactly level with the Chrysler Building in height.[9] Both buildings were then pushed into 4th position, when the under construction One World Trade Center surpassed their height. The Chrysler Building is a classic example of Art Deco architecture and considered by many contemporary architects to be one of the finest buildings in New York City. In 2007, it was ranked ninth on the List of America's Favorite Architecture by the American Institute of Architects.[10] It was the headquarters of the Chrysler Corporation from 1930 until the mid-1950s. Although the building was built and designed specifically for the car manufacturer, the corporation did not pay for the construction of it and never owned it, as Walter P. Chrysler decided to pay for it himself, so that his children could inherit it.
Church of the Ascension	The Church of the Ascension is an Episcopal church in the Diocese of New York, located at 36-38 Fifth Avenue and Tenth Street in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan New York City. From an austere beginning as a bastion of the evangelical movement it has become internationally known for its art, music, and liturgy. From a church with rented pews and a mostly affluent, homogeneous congregation, it has evolved into a parish of diverse people whose economic circumstances vary widely. The church, which was built in 1840-41 and was designed by Richard Upjohn in the Gothic Revival style, with an interior remodeled by Stanford White in 1885-89, was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1987. Its parish house, at 12 West 11th Street between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas (Sixth Avenue), was built in 1844 and was altered to its current state in 1888-89 by McKim, Mead and White in a Northern Renaissance-inspired style. Both buildings are part of the Greenwich Village Historic District, designated by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1969
City Hall	New York City Hall is located at the center of City Hall Park in the Civic Center area of Lower Manhattan, New York City, between Broadway, Park Row, and Chambers Street. The building is the oldest city hall in the United States that still houses its original governmental functions,[3] such as the office of the Mayor of New York City and the chambers of the New York City Council. While the Mayor's Office is in the building, the staff of thirteen municipal agencies under mayoral control are located in the nearby Manhattan Municipal Building, one of the largest government buildings in the world. Constructed from 1810 to 1812,[4] New York City Hall is a National Historic Landmark and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[2][5][6] Both its exterior (1966) and interior (1976) are designated New York City landmarks
Conference House	The Conference House (also known as "Bentley Manor")[3] was built before 1680 and is located near the southernmost tip of New York State on Staten Island, which became known as "Billop's Point" in the 18th century. The Staten Island Peace Conference was held here on September 11, 1776, which unsuccessfully attempted to end the American Revolutionary War. The house, a National and New York City Landmark, is the only pre-Revolutionary manor house still surviving in New York City. It is located at Conference House Park overlooking Raritan Bay. The house is also located within the Ward's Point Conservation Area, separately added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.
Will Marion Cook House	The Will Marion Cook House is where Will Marion Cook lived from 1918 to 1944. Called the "master of all masters of our people" by Duke Ellington, he was a leading black composer and musician.[3] The house, located at 221 West 138th Street, Manhattan, New York City, is part of the area known as Strivers' Row.[3] It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.
Cooper Union	The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, commonly referred to simply as Cooper Union or Cooper Institute,[4] is a privately funded college located in Cooper Square in the East Village neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. Inspired in 1830 when Peter Cooper learned about the government-supported École Polytechnique, Cooper Union was established in 1859.[5][6] The school was built on a radical new model of American higher education based on founder Peter Cooper's fundamental belief that an education "equal to the best technology schools [then] established"[7] should be accessible to those who qualify, independent of their race, religion, sex, wealth or social status, and should be "open and free to all".[8] The Cooper Union previously granted each admitted student a full-tuition scholarship; as of April 23, 2013, due to financial concerns, that policy has been eliminated beginning with the class entering in the Fall of 2014.[9] The college is divided into three schools: the Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture, the School of Art, and the Albert Nerken School of Engineering. It offers undergraduate and master's degree programs exclusively in the fields of architecture, fine arts, and engineering. It is a member of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and the Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design (AICAD). Cooper is considered to be one of the most prestigious colleges in the United States, with all three of its member schools consistently ranked among the highest in the country.[10] Dr. Jamshed Bharucha has succeeded George Campbell Jr. as the college's twelfth president. Cooper Union was one of very few American institutions of higher learning to offer a full-tuition scholarship – valued at approximately $150,000 as of 2012 – to every admitted student. Cooper Union has historically been one of the most selective colleges in the United States, with an acceptance rate typically below 10%. Both the art and architecture schools have acceptance rates below 5%.[11] Cooper Union experienced a 20% increase in applications for the 2008–2009 academic year, further lowering the acceptance rate.[12] The school also experienced a 70% increase in early decision applications for the 2009–2010 academic year.[13] As a result of its record low acceptance ratio for the fall-2010 incoming class, Cooper Union was named by Newsweek as the "#1 Most Desirable Small School"[14] and "#7 Most Desirable School"[15] overall.
Daily News Building	The Daily News Building, also known as The News Building, is a 476-foot (145 m) Art-Deco skyscraper located at 220 East 42nd Street between Second and Third Avenues in the Turtle Bay neighborhood[3] of Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Built in 1929-1930, it was headquarters for the New York Daily News newspaper until 1995.[4] Its design by architects Raymond Hood and John Mead Howells, among the first skyscrapers to be built without an ornamental crown, can be seen as a precursor to Hood's design of Rockefeller Center. A 1957-60 addition to the building which expanded the lobby on the southwest corner of Second Avenue was designed by Harrison & Abramovitz, echoing the vertical stripes of the original design, except with a wider stripe.[3][4] The building, including the newspaper's new printing presses, cost $10,700,000[5] – about $135 million in 2010 dollars.[6] The lobby of the building includes a black glass domed ceiling, under which is the world's largest indoor globe, which was kept up to date however it has now not been updated for some time. This was conceived by the Daily News as a permanent educational science exhibit.[4][7] The Daily News Building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1981 and its interior in 1998.[4] It became a National Historic Landmark in 1989[2][8][9] and is now owned by SL Green Realty Corp
Dakota Apartments	The Dakota (also known as Dakota Apartments)[3][4] is a co-op apartment building located on the northwest corner of 72nd Street and Central Park West in the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City. Constructed between October 25, 1880 and October 27, 1884,[5][6] the building is known as the home of former Beatle John Lennon from 1973 to 1980 as well as the location of his murder. The Dakota is considered to be one of Manhattan's most prestigious and exclusive cooperative residential buildings, with apartments generally selling for between $4 million and $30 million. The architectural firm of Henry Janeway Hardenbergh was commissioned to create the design for Edward Clark, head of the Singer Sewing Machine Company. The firm also designed the Plaza Hotel.[7] The building's high gables and deep roofs with a profusion of dormers, terracotta spandrels and panels, niches, balconies, and balustrades give it a North German Renaissance character, an echo of a Hanseatic townhall. Nevertheless, its layout and floor plan betray a strong influence of French architectural trends in housing design that had become known in New York in the 1870s. According to often-repeated stories, the Dakota was so named because at the time it was built, the Upper West Side of Manhattan was sparsely inhabited and considered as remote as the Dakota Territory. However, the earliest recorded appearance of this account is in a 1933 newspaper interview with the Dakota's long-time manager, quoted in Christopher Gray's book New York Streetscapes: "Probably it was called 'Dakota' because it was so far west and so far north". According to Gray, it is more likely that the building was named the Dakota because of Clark's fondness for the names of the new western states and territories.[8] High above the 72nd Street entrance, the figure of a Dakota Indian keeps watch. The Dakota was designated a New York City Landmark in 1969.[9] In 1976, the building was added to the National Register of Historic Places Inventory,[2] and it was recognized as a National Historic Landmark.
Dyckman House	The Dyckman Farmhouse is the oldest remaining farmhouse on Manhattan island, a reminder of New York City's rural past. The Dutch Colonial-style farmhouse was built by Dutch farmer William Dyckman, circa 1784, and was originally part of over 250 acres (100 ha) of farmland owned by the family.[3] It is now located in a small park at the corner of Broadway and 204th Street in the Inwood section of the city.[2] The farmhouse was transferred from the Dyckman family to the city of New York, which opened it as a museum, in 1916. It has been a National Historic Landmark since 1967.[2][4][5] Dyckman House was featured in Bob Vila's A&E Network production, Guide to Historic Homes of America.[6] A major restoration project was undertaken in 2003, and the farmhouse re-opened to the public in the fall of 2005
Eldridge Street Synagogue	The Eldridge Street Synagogue, built in 1887, is a National Historic Landmark synagogue in Manhattan's Chinatown neighborhood
Duke Ellington House	The Duke Ellington House, or Edward Kennedy "Duke" Ellington House, is where Duke Ellington, the famous African American composer and jazz musician, resided from 1939 through 1961.[2] The building and/or Ellington's apartment, Apartment 4A, was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1976.
Empire State Building	The Empire State Building is a 103-story skyscraper located in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and West 34th Street. It has a roof height of 1,250 feet (381 meters), and with its antenna spire included, it stands a total of 1,454 ft (443.2 m) high.[6] Its name is derived from the nickname for New York, the Empire State. It stood as the world's tallest building for nearly 40 years, from its completion in early 1931 until the topping out of the World Trade Center's North Tower in late 1970.[11] Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, the Empire State Building was again the tallest building in New York (although it was no longer the tallest in the US or the world), until One World Trade Center reached a greater height on April 30, 2012.[12] The Empire State Building is currently the fourth-tallest completed skyscraper in the United States (after the One World Trade Center, the Willis Tower and Trump International Hotel and Tower, both in Chicago), and the 23rd-tallest in the world (the tallest now is Burj Khalifa, located in Dubai). It is also the fourth-tallest freestanding structure in the Americas. The Empire State Building is generally thought of as an American cultural icon. It is designed in the distinctive Art Deco style and has been named as one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. The building and its street floor interior are designated landmarks of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and confirmed by the New York City Board of Estimate.[13] It was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1986.[9][14][15] In 2007, it was ranked number one on the AIA's List of America's Favorite Architecture. The building is owned by the Empire State Realty Trust, for which Anthony Malkin serves as Chairman, CEO and President.[16] In 2010, the Empire State Building underwent a $550 million renovation, with $120 million spent to transform the building into a more energy efficient and eco-friendly structure.[17] Receiving a gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating in September 2011, the Empire State Building is the tallest LEED certified building in the United States.
Equitable Building	The Equitable Building is a 38-story[4] office building in New York City, located at 120 Broadway between Pine and Cedar Streets in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan. A landmark engineering achievement as a skyscraper, it was designed by Ernest R. Graham – the successor to D. H. Burnham & Company[1] – with Peirce Anderson as the architect-in-charge,[5] and completed in 1915, when it was that largest office building in the world in square-footage:[5] on a plot of just less than an acre, the building had 1.2 million square feet of floor space.[1] Built to be the headquarters of the Equitable Life Insurance Company, the controversy surrounding its construction without setbacks which allowed sunlight to reach the ground contributed to the adoption of the first modern building and zoning restrictions on vertical structures in Manhattan. Although it is now dwarfed by taller buildings in its vicinity, it still retains a distinctive identity in its surroundings on Lower Broadway. The building was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1978,[3][6][7] and a New York City landmark in 1996. It was restored in 1983-90 by Ehrenkrantz, Eckstut & Whitelaw.
Hamilton Fish House	Hamilton Fish House, also known as the Stuyvesant Fish House and Nicholas and Elizabeth Stuyvesant Fish House, is where Hamilton Fish, future Governor and Senator of New York, was born and resided from 1808 to 1838.[3] It is located at 21 Stuyvesant Street, a diagonal street within the Manhattan street grid, between 9th and 10th Streets in the East Village neighborhood of New York City. It is owned by Cooper Union and used as a residence for the college's president.[4] The brick Federal style house, which was unusually wide for its time[5] was built by Peter Stuyvesant, the great-grandson of Petrus Stuyvesant, around 1804 as a wedding present to his daughter, Elizabeth, and his son-in-law, Nicholas Fish, parents of Hamilton.[6] It was one of five houses owned by the family on their private lane. The land had been the property of the family since the 17th century.[6] The house was designated a New York City landmark in 1965,[6] and was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1975.[2][3][7] It also lies within the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission's St. Mark's Historic District which surrounds the nearby St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery.
Flatiron Building	The Flatiron Building, originally the Fuller Building, is located at 175 Fifth Avenue in the borough of Manhattan, New York City, and is considered to be a groundbreaking skyscraper. Upon completion in 1902, it was one of the tallest buildings in the city and one of only two skyscrapers north of 14th Street – the other being the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower, one block east. The building sits on a triangular island-block formed by Fifth Avenue, Broadway and East 22nd Street, with 23rd Street grazing the triangle's northern (uptown) peak. As with numerous other wedge-shaped buildings, the name "Flatiron" derives from its resemblance to a cast-iron clothes iron. The building anchors the south (downtown) end of Madison Square and the north (uptown) end of the Ladies' Mile Historic District. The neighborhood around it is called the Flatiron District after its signature building, which has become an icon of New York City.[4] The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966,[5] was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979,[6] and designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989
Founder's Hall, The Rockefeller University	Founder's Hall was the first building built on the campus of The Rockefeller University (formerly The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research ).[3] Although there are still laboratories in the building, the space is now mostly used for administrative offices.[2] It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1974.[2][3][4] It is located at 66th Street and York Avenue, in Manhattan, New York City
Governors Island	Governors Island is a 172-acre (70 ha) island in Upper New York Bay, approximately one-half mile (1 km) from the southern tip of Manhattan Island and separated from Brooklyn by Buttermilk Channel. It is legally part of the borough of Manhattan in New York City. Physically, the island changed greatly during the early 20th century. Using material excavated from the Lexington Avenue subway, the Army Corps of Engineers supervised the deposit of 4,787,000 cubic yards of fill on the south side of Governors Island, adding 103 acres (42 ha) of flat, treeless land by 1912 and bringing the total acreage of the island to 172.[3] The Native Americans of the Manhattan region referred to the island as "Paggank", meaning 'nut island', doubtless after the island's plentiful hickory, oak, and chestnut trees;[4] the Dutch explorer Adriaen Block called it "Noten Eylant", a translation, and this was borrowed into English as "Nutten Island". The island's current name, made official in 1784, stems from British colonial times when the colonial assembly reserved the island for the exclusive use of New York's royal governors. Defensive works were raised on the island in 1776 by Continental Army troops during the American Revolutionary War, and fired upon British ships before they were taken. From 1783 to 1966, the island was a United States Army post. From 1966 to 1996 the island served as a major United States Coast Guard installation. On January 19, 2001, Fort Jay and Castle Williams, two of the island's three historical fortifications, were proclaimed a National Monument. On January 31, 2003, 150 acres of the island was transferred to the State of New York for $1. The remainder (22 acres or 9 ha) was transferred to the United States Department of the Interior as the Governors Island National Monument, administered by the National Park Service. The 150 acre portion of the island not included in the National Monument is administered by The Trust for Governors Island, an entity of the City of New York and the successor of the joint city/state established redevelopment entity, the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation. The transfer included deed restrictions which prohibit permanent housing or casinos on the island. On May 24, 2012, Mayor Michael Bloomberg broke ground on the new park and public spaces designed by the landscape design firm West 8, along with announcing the opening of the rehabilitated Castle Williams.[5] The national historic landmark district, approximately 92 acres (37 ha) of the northern half of the island, is open to the public for several months in the summer and early fall. The circumferential road around the island is also open to the public. The island is accessed by free ferries from Brooklyn and Manhattan.
Grace Church	Grace Church is a historic parish church in Manhattan, New York City which is part of the Episcopal Diocese of New York. The church is located at 800-804 Broadway, at the corner of East 10th Street, where Broadway bends to the south-southeast, bringing it in alignment with the avenues in Manhattan's grid. Grace Church School and the church houses – which are now used by the school – are located to the east at 86-98 Fourth Avenue between East 10th and 12th Streets. The church, which has been called "one of the city's greatest treasures",[4] is a French Gothic Revival[5] masterpiece designed by James Renwick, Jr., his first major commission. Grace Church is a National Historic Landmark designated for its architectural significance and place within the history of New York City,[3][6][7] and the entire complex is a New York City landmark, designated in 1966 (church and rectory) and 1977 (church houses).
Grand Central Terminal	Grand Central Terminal (GCT) is a commuter (and former intercity) railroad terminal at 42nd Street and Park Avenue in Midtown Manhattan in New York City, United States.[N 1] Built by and named for the New York Central Railroad in the heyday of American long-distance passenger rail travel, it is the largest such facility in the world by number of platforms[4] with 44 serving 67 tracks along them. They are on two levels, both below ground, with 41 tracks on the upper level and 26 on the lower, though the total number of tracks along platforms and in rail yards exceeds 100. The terminal covers an area of 48 acres (19 ha). The terminal serves commuters traveling on the Metro-North Railroad to Westchester, Putnam, and Dutchess counties in New York State, and Fairfield and New Haven counties in Connecticut. Until 1991 the terminal served Amtrak, which moved to nearby Pennsylvania Station upon completion of the Empire Connection. Although the terminal has been properly called “Grand Central Terminal” since 1913, many people continue to refer to it wrongly as “Grand Central Station,” the name of the previous rail station on the same site, and of the U.S. Post Office station next door, which is not part of the terminal. It is also sometimes used to refer to the Grand Central – 42nd Street subway station, which serves the terminal. It has been described as "the world's loveliest station".[5] According to the travel magazine Travel + Leisure in its October 2011 survey, Grand Central Terminal is "the world's number six most visited tourist attraction", bringing in approximately 21,600,000 visitors annually.[6] The enduring appeal of the station is thought to be related to its monumental spaces and meticulously crafted detail
Green-Wood Cemetery	Green-Wood Cemetery was founded in 1838 as a rural cemetery in Kings County,[3] New York.[4] It was granted National Historic Landmark status in 2006 by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Located in Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, it lies several blocks southwest of Prospect Park, between Park Slope, Windsor Terrace, Borough Park, Kensington, and Sunset Park. Paul Goldberger in The New York Times, wrote that it was said "it is the ambition of the New Yorker to live upon the Fifth Avenue, to take his airings in the Park, and to sleep with his fathers in Green-Wood".
Hamilton Grange National Memorial	Hamilton Grange National Memorial is a National Park Service site in St. Nicholas Park, New York City that preserves the relocated home of U.S. Founding Father Alexander Hamilton
Henry Street Settlement and Neighborhood Playhouse	The Henry Street Settlement is a not-for-profit social service agency in the Lower East Side neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City that provides social services, arts programs and health care services to New Yorkers of all ages. It was founded in 1893 by Progressive reformer and nurse Lillian Wald. The Settlement serves about 50,000 people each year. Clients include low-income individuals and families, survivors of domestic violence, youngsters ages 2 through 21, individuals with mental and physical health challenges, senior citizens, and arts and culture enthusiasts who attend performances, classes and exhibitions at Henry Street’s Abrons Arts Center. The Settlement’s administrative offices are still located in its original (c. 1832) federal row houses at 263, 265 and 267 Henry Street in Manhattan. Services are offered at 17 program sites throughout the area, many of them located in buildings operated by the New York City Housing Authority. The Settlement's buildings at 263, 265 and 267 Henry Street were designated New York City landmarks in 1966,[4] and these buildings, along with the Neighborhood Playhouse building at 466 Grand Street, were collectively designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989
Matthew Henson Residence	The Matthew Henson Residence is where Matthew Henson, the African American polar explorer, lived from 1929 until his death in 1955. Largely forgotten, he was arguably the first man to reach the North Pole in 1909, as he was assigned the task of breaking trail in explorer Robert Peary's expedition.[3] That argument is somewhat tenuous, in part because the expedition did not have the means to exactly determine the location of the North Pole and its having reached the North Pole was a matter of declaration. His residence was apartment 3F within the 246 W. 150th Street building, which is part of the Dunbar Apartments, a NRHP-listed building. His residence was named a National Historic Landmark in 1975
Hispanic Society of America Complex	The Hispanic Society of America is a museum and reference library for the study of the arts and cultures of Spain, Portugal, and Latin America. Founded in 1904 by Archer M. Huntington, the institution is free and open to the public at its original location in a Beaux Arts building on Audubon Terrace (at 155th Street and Broadway) in the lower Washington Heights area of New York City in the United States.[1] Exterior sculpture at the Society includes work by Anna Hyatt Huntington and nine major reliefs by the Swiss-American sculptor Berthold Nebel, a commission that took ten years to complete.
Holland Tunnel	The Clifford Milburn Holland Tunnel (more commonly known as the Holland Tunnel) is a highway tunnel under the Hudson River connecting the island of Manhattan in New York City with Jersey City, New Jersey at Interstate 78 on the mainland of the United States. Unusual for an American public works project, it is not named for a government official, a politician, a local hero, or a person of historical interest, but for its first chief engineer. An integral conduit within the New York Metropolitan Area, the tunnel was originally known as the Hudson River Vehicular Tunnel or the Canal Street Tunnel; it was the first of two automobile tunnels built under the river, the other being the Lincoln Tunnel.
USS Intrepid	USS Intrepid (CV/CVA/CVS-11), also known as The Fighting "I", is one of 24 Essex-class aircraft carriers built during World War II for the United States Navy. She is the fourth US Navy ship to bear the name. Commissioned in August 1943, Intrepid participated in several campaigns in the Pacific Theater of Operations, most notably the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Decommissioned shortly after the end of the war, she was modernized and recommissioned in the early 1950s as an attack carrier (CVA), and then eventually became an antisubmarine carrier (CVS). In her second career, she served mainly in the Atlantic, but also participated in the Vietnam War. Her notable achievements include being the recovery ship for a Mercury and a Gemini space mission. Because of her prominent role in battle, she was nicknamed "the Fighting I", while her often ill-luck and the time spent in dry dock for repairs earned her the nickname "the Dry I". Decommissioned in 1974, in 1982 Intrepid became the foundation of the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum in New York City
James Weldon Johnson Residence	The James Weldon Johnson Residence located at 187 West 135th Street, Harlem, Manhattan, New York City, New York, is where James Weldon Johnson lived from 1925 until his death in 1938. In addition to being a composer, song writer, and author, he was an outspoken advocate for civil rights, working in various roles at the NAACP, including General Secretary.[3] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.
King Manor	King Manor, also known as the Rufus King House, is in Jamaica, Queens. It was the home of Rufus King, a signer of the United States Constitution, a Senator from New York, and Ambassador to Great Britain immediately after the American Revolution.[3] It is located at 150th Street and Jamaica Avenue. Descendants of King's family lived in the house until 1896 when Rufus' granddaughter Cornelia King died and sold the house to the Village of Jamaica. When Jamaica, along with the western half of Queens County was annexed by New York City in 1898, the house and the property were turned over to the New York City Parks Department which re-designated the land as "Rufus King Park." It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1974
Lettie G. Howard (schooner)	Lettie G. Howard is a wooden Fredonia schooner built in 1893 in Essex, Massachusetts, USA.[3] This type of craft was commonly used by American offshore fishermen. The Lettie spent a significant portion of her working life off the Yucatan Peninsula coast. In 1968, she was sold to the South Street Seaport Museum and refinished. She was restored in 1991 and is certified as a training and working museum ship. She was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1989.[2][4][5] Based in New York, she currently sails along the Northeast seaboard. She underwent extensive shipyard repairs in Portland, Maine in the second half of 2013. Current Master: Captain Aaron Singh (12/1/13- Present)
Lorillard Snuff Mill	he Lorillard Snuff Mill now known as the Lillian and Amy Goldman Stone Mill, is the oldest existing tobacco manufacturing building in the United States. It was built around 1840 next to the Bronx River to replace an earlier building of the same function. The schist that makes up its walls was quarried locally. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1977 and is located inside the New York Botanical Garden, itself an NHL.[2][3] The Lorillard firm was founded by Pierre Abraham Lorillard in 1760. His two sons took over after he was killed during the American Revolutionary War, and they moved the firm to this location in the Bronx.[3] They also built a stone cottage and stables nearby. The land was purchased by New York city in 1884 and was transferred to the New York Botanical Gardens in 1915. It became a team room in the 1950s. The building had a $10.5 million restoration in 2010 and is now used for staff offices and a catering facility.
Low Memorial Library	The Low Memorial Library is the administrative center of Columbia University. Built in 1895 by University President Seth Low in memory of his father, Abiel Abbot Low, and financed with $1 million of Low's own money due to the recalcitrance of university alumni, it is the focal point and most prominent building on the university's Morningside Heights campus. The steps leading to the library's columned facade are a popular meeting place for Columbia students as well as home to Daniel Chester French's sculpture, Alma Mater, a university symbol. Low Library was officially named a New York City landmark in 1967, then a National Historic Landmark twenty years later.
R. H. Macy and Company Store (Macy's)	Macy's Herald Square, originally known as the R. H. Macy and Company Store, is the flagship of Macy's department stores, located on Herald Square in Manhattan, New York City. The building's 2.2 million square feet (almost 205,000 square meters)[3] made it the world's largest department store from 1924 until 2009, when the South Korean chain Shinsegae opened a store of nearly 3.16 million square feet (293,905 square meters) in Busan. As of 2011, the store has stood at the site for 110 years. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places as a National Historic Landmark in 1978
McGraw Hill Building	330 West 42nd Street is also known as the McGraw Hill Building. The original McGraw-Hill building was located at 469 Tenth Avenue. This second McGraw-Hill building, on 42nd Street (33 stories, 485 ft / 148 m) was completed in 1931, the same year as the completion of the Empire State Building. The architect was Raymond Hood. The exterior walls of the building are panels of blue-green terra-cotta ceramic tiles, alternating with green-metal-framed windows, with a strongly horizontal orientation. The building was the only New York building shown in the influential International Style exhibition in 1932, and it's also been cited as a landmark of Art Deco design. Located on West 42nd Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, one of the two blocks that also houses the Port Authority Bus Terminal, the McGraw-Hill Building had been the tallest building in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood for decades. It lost that status with the building of One Worldwide Plaza. It is still visible from a distance, but is dwarfed by the newly constructed Orion Building on the same block, a 58-story tall residential complex, also with a green exterior. The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1989.[5][4] This address was also given by Jack Kirby in Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941) as the mailing address to which fans could write to the titular character, as the offices of Timely Comics, which later became Marvel Comics, were located in the building
Claude McKay Residence	The Harlem YMCA, also known as the Claude McKay Residence, is located at 180 West 135th Street between Lenox Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard in the Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. Built in 1931-32, the red-brown brick building with neo-Georgian details was designed by the Architectural Bureau of the National Council of the YMCA, with James C. Mackenzie, Jr. as the architect in charge.[2][3] It replaced the building from 1919 across the street.[3] Inside the building is a mural by Aaron Douglas titled "Evolution of Negro Dance." The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976,[5][6] and was designated a New York City Landmark in 1998.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower	The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower, also known as the Metropolitan Life Tower or Met Life Tower, and currently being converted into the New York Edition Hotel, is a landmark skyscraper located on Madison Avenue near the intersection with East 23rd Street, across from Madison Square Park in Manhattan, New York City. Designed by the architectural firm of Napoleon LeBrun & Sons and built by the Hedden Construction Company, the tower is modeled after the Campanile in Venice, Italy.[7] It was constructed in 1909 and served as world headquarters of the company until 2005. It was the world's tallest building for three years, until 1913, when it was surpassed by the Woolworth Building.[8] Currently, the hotel to be located in the clock tower portion of the building has the address 5 Madison Avenue, while the office building covering the rest of the block, occupied primarily by Credit Suisse, is referred to as 1 Madison Avenue. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972, designated a National Historic Landmark in 1978,[5][9] and a New York City landmark in 1989
Metropolitan Museum of Art	The Metropolitan Museum of Art, located in New York City, is the largest art museum in the United States, and one of the ten largest in the world, with the most significant art collections.[6] Its permanent collection contains more than two million works, divided among seventeen curatorial departments.[7] The main building, located on the eastern edge of Central Park along Manhattan's Museum Mile, is by area one of the world's largest art galleries. There is also a much smaller second location at "The Cloisters" in Upper Manhattan that features medieval art.[8] Represented in the permanent collection are works of art from classical antiquity and Ancient Egypt, paintings and sculptures from nearly all the European masters, and an extensive collection of American and modern art. The Met also maintains extensive holdings of African, Asian, Oceanic, Byzantine, and Islamic art.[9] The museum is also home to encyclopedic collections of musical instruments, costumes and accessories, and antique weapons and armor from around the world.[10] Several notable interiors, ranging from 1st-century Rome through modern American design, are permanently installed in the Met's galleries.[11] The Metropolitan Museum of Art was founded in 1870 by a group of American citizens. The founders included businessmen and financiers, as well as leading artists and thinkers of the day, who wanted to open a museum to bring art and art education to the American people.[2] It opened on February 20, 1872, and was originally located at 681 Fifth Avenue.[12] As of 2012, the Met occupies about 2,000,000 square feet (190,000 m2).[13] Admission is pay what you wish with a recommendation of $25
Pierpont Morgan Library	The Morgan Library & Museum – formerly the Pierpont Morgan Library – is a museum and research library located at 225 Madison Avenue at East 36th Street in the Murray Hill neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. It was founded to house the private library of J. P. Morgan in 1906, which included, besides the manuscripts and printed books, some of them in rare bindings, his collection of prints and drawings. The library was designed by Charles McKim of the firm of McKim, Mead and White, and cost $1.2 million. It was made a public institution in 1924 by his son, John Pierpont Morgan, Jr., in accordance with his father's will. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966,[4] and was declared a National Historic Landmark later that same year.
Morris-Jumel Mansion	The Morris–Jumel Mansion (also known as the Roger and Mary Philipse Morris House), located in Washington Heights, is the oldest house in the borough of Manhattan in New York City. It served as a headquarters for both sides in the American Revolution
National City Bank Building	The National City Bank Building at 55 Wall Street between William and Hanover Streets in the Financial District of downtown Manhattan, New York City, was built in 1836-41 as the Merchants' Exchange, replacing the previous exchange, which had opened in 1827 and burned down in the Great Fire of New York in 1835.[5][6] The new building was designed by Isaiah Rogers in the Greek Revival style. The United States Custom House moved into the building in 1862 – with the conversion of the building overseen by William A. Potter – and occupied it until 1907, when it moved to the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House at 1 Bowling Green.[2] After the Custom House left, James Stillman, president of National City Bank (predecessor bank of Citibank), arranged for his company to buy the building from the government to be their headquarters.[7] Charles Follen McKim[3] of McKim, Mead & White was engaged to enlarge the building, including removing the dome, adding four floors and a second colonnade and gutting the interior, the main floor of which McKim redesigned with William S. Richardson (1907-1910). The old main banking hall has been used as a ballroom and event space since 1998, and the remainder of the building is now condominium apartments.[2][5] 55 Wall Street became the new home of National City Bank on December 19, 1908 when the bank moved across the street from 52 Wall Street. Stillman ordered that the building's Ionic colonnade be preserved and that the interior be remodeled to look like the Pantheon in Rome. [8] 55 Wall Street served as Citibank's global headquarters from 1908 to 1961, when it moved to the newly completed 399 Park Avenue, one of the earlier migrations by Wall Street commercial and investment banks from downtown to midtown Manhattan.[9] Years after the headquarters move, 55 Wall Street continued as a full service retail branch (still carrying the moniker Branch # 001), as well as a substantial location for private banking operations. The building served as the headquarters for the law firm of Shearman & Sterling, lead counsel for Citibank and the Rockefeller family for decades.[10] The building was sold by Citibank in 1990 to private investors for $69 million.[11] Citibank ended its branch banking presence at 55 Wall Street in 1992 [12] Notable people who spent time at 55 Wall Street include President Chester A. Arthur, who worked as a customs collector in the 1870s, and writer Herman Melville worked as a customs inspector and wrote part of Moby Dick while working there.[
New York Amsterdam News Building	The New York Amsterdam News Building is where The New York Amsterdam News was published between 1916 and 1938. During this period, the newspaper grew to national influence covering African-American issues. The midblock rowhouse is located at 2293 Seventh Avenue (Adam Clayton Powell Jr Avenue), Manhattan, New York City, New York.[3][4] It was named a National Historic Landmark in 1976.
New York Botanical Garden	The New York Botanical Garden (NYBG) is a designated national landmark botanical garden located in the Bronx, New York City, United States. It spans some 250 acres (100 ha) of Bronx Park and is home to the Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory. The facility offers exhibitions and flower shows throughout the year and is visited by over 800,000 visitors annually.
New York Cotton Exchange	1 Hanover Square, formerly known as the New York Cotton Exchange building and as India House, is on the southern edge of Hanover Square in lower Manhattan in New York City.
New York Life Building	The New York Life Insurance Building, New York, located at 51 Madison Avenue, Manhattan, New York City, across from Madison Square Park, is the headquarters of the New York Life Insurance Company
New York Public Library	The Stephen A. Schwarzman Building of the New York Public Library, more widely known as the Main Branch or simply as "the New York Public Library," is the flagship building in the New York Public Library system and a prominent historic landmark in Midtown Manhattan. The branch, opened in 1911, is one of four research libraries in the library system. It is located on Fifth Avenue at its intersection with 42nd Street. The Library's famous Rose Main Reading Room (Room 315) is a majestic 78 feet (23.8 m) wide and 297 feet (90.5 m) long, with 52-foot (15.8 m) high ceilings. The room is lined with thousands of reference works on open shelves along the floor level and along the balcony, lit by massive windows and grand chandeliers, and furnished with sturdy wood tables, comfortable chairs, and brass lamps. It is also equipped with computers providing access to library collections and the Internet as well as docking facilities for laptops. Readers study books brought to them from the library's closed stacks. There are special rooms named for notable authors and scholars, many of whom have done important research and writing at the Library. But the Library has always been about more than scholars; during the Great Depression, many members of the general public, out of work, used the Library to improve their lot in life, as they still do.[3] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1965.[
New York Stock Exchange	The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), sometimes known as the "Big Board",[4] is a stock exchange located at 11 Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, New York City, New York, United States. It is by far the world's largest stock exchange by market capitalization of its listed companies at US$16.613 trillion as of May 2013.[1] Average daily trading value was approximately US$169 billion in 2013. The NYSE trading floor is located at 11 Wall Street and is composed of four rooms used for the facilitation of trading. A fifth trading room, located at 30 Broad Street, was closed in February 2007. The main building, located at 18 Broad Street, between the corners of Wall Street and Exchange Place, was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1978,[5] as was the 11 Wall Street building.[3][6][7] The NYSE is operated by NYSE Euronext (NYSE: NYX), which was formed by the NYSE's 2007 merger with the fully electronic stock exchange Euronext. In December 2012, it was announced that the company was being sold to Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), a futures exchange headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, for $8 billion, a figure that is significantly less than the $11 billion bid for the company tendered in 2011.[8] NYSE and Euronext now operate as divisions to IntercontinentalExchange.The NYSE has been the subject of several lawsuits regarding fraud or breach of duty[9][10] and was sued by its former CEO for breach of contract and defamation
New York Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture	The Whitney Museum of American Art original building is a collection of three 1838 rowhouses located at 8-12 West 8th Street between Fifth Avenue and MacDougal Street in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. In 1914, Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney established the Whitney Studio Club at 8 West 8th Street adjacent to her own MacDougal Alley studio. The club was intended to be a place where young artists could exhibit their works.[1] In 1929, when the Metropolitan Museum of Art rejected Whitney's offer of a gift of new artworks that she had collected, Whitney established the Whitney Museum of American Art. In 1931 she had architect Auguste L. Noel of the firm of Noel & Miller convert the three row houses at 8-12 West 8th Street into a gallery and residence for herself, and then, in 1936, into the museum's first home.[1][3] In 1954, the museum moved uptown to new quarters – eventually settling in 1966 at 945 Madison Avenue at East 75th Street – and the building, with the addition of #14 West 8th Street, an Italianate house built in 1853-54,[3] became the New York Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture.[1] The building is located within the Greenwich Village Historic District, established in 1969 by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1992
New York Yacht Club	The New York Yacht Club is a private social club and yacht club based in New York City and Newport, Rhode Island. It was founded in 1844 by nine prominent sportsmen. The members have contributed to the sport of yachting and yacht design. The organization has over 3,000 members as of 2011. Membership in the club is by invitation only. Its officers include a Commodore, vice-commodore, rear-commodore, secretary and treasurer.
Old Merchant's House	The Merchant's House Museum, known formerly as the Old Merchant's House and as the Seabury Tredwell House, is the only nineteenth-century family home in New York City preserved intact — both inside and out. Built "on spec" in 1832 by Joseph Brewster, a hatter by trade, it is located at 29 East Fourth Street, between Lafayette Street and the Bowery in Manhattan. It became a museum in 1936, founded by George Chapman, a cousin of the family who once lived there. Of note, the House was among the first 20 buildings designated in 1965 under the City’s new landmarks law. It is the only historic house museum in the Greenwich Village/Soho/NoHo neighborhoods and celebrated 75 years as a museum in 2011
Old Quaker Meeting House	The Old Quaker Meeting House is a historic Quaker house of worship located at 137-16 Northern Boulevard, in Flushing, Queens, New York. It is part of Flushing Monthly Meeting. The site, built in 1694, is the oldest house of worship in New York City, one of the three oldest continuously active sites of religious activity in North America, and the second oldest Quaker meeting house in the nation. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1967.[2][3] Today, it still serves as a Quaker Meeting, with meetings for worship taking place every Sunday.
Philosophy Hall	Philosophy Hall is a building on the campus of Columbia University in New York City. It houses the English, Philosophy, and French departments, along with the university's writing center, part of its registrar's office, and the student lounge of its Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. It is one of the original buildings designed for the university's Morningside Heights campus by McKim, Mead, and White, built in the Italian Renaissance Revival style and completed in 1910. Philosophy Hall is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and has been designated a National Historic Landmark as the site of the invention of FM radio by Edwin Armstrong in the early 1930s. The space now occupied by the registrar formerly housed electrical engineering laboratories in which Michael I. Pupin and Edwin Howard Armstrong made several major technological breakthroughs. Over the years the building has been home to such notable faculty members as philosophers John Dewey, Frederick J. E. Woodbridge and Ernest Nagel, Guadeloupean novelist Maryse Condé, French literary scholar Michael Riffaterre, poet Kenneth Koch and English literary scholars Lionel Trilling, Edward Said, Carolyn Heilbrun, Quentin Anderson, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak and Mark Van Doren. Philosophy Hall was not occupied by protesters during the 1968 protests. It served instead as a refuge for faculty and a site of contentious debates among them concerning student conduct. The lawn in front of Philosophy Hall is the site of an original cast of The Thinker (Le Penseur), one of the most famous pieces by French sculptor Auguste Rodin. The hall was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2003.[2][3] It is one of only a handful of buildings on the Columbia campus named for an academic discipline, and not an individual. The others include Mathematics, Journalism, and International Affairs
Players Club	The Players, frequently referred to as the Players Club, is a social club founded in New York City by the noted 19th-century Shakespearean actor Edwin Booth, who purchased an 1847 mansion located at 16 Gramercy Park. During his lifetime, he reserved an upper floor for his home, turning the rest of the building over to the Clubhouse. Its interior and part of its exterior was designed by architect Stanford White. It was named a National Historic Landmark in 1962.[2][3][4] In 1989, women were invited to become fully participating members. The Players still maintains its entryway gaslights, among the few remaining examples in New York City.
Plaza Hotel	The Plaza Hotel, located in the borough of Manhattan, New York City, is a landmark 20-story luxury hotel with a height of 250 ft (76 m) and length of 400 ft (120 m) that occupies the west side of Grand Army Plaza, from which it derives its name, and extends along Central Park South in Manhattan. Fifth Avenue extends along the east side of Grand Army Plaza. The Plaza Hotel is recognized as a Historic Hotel of America by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims	Plymouth Church is an historic church located at 57 Orange Street between Henry and Hicks Streets in the Brooklyn Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City. It also has the address 75 Hicks Street.
Pupin Physics Laboratory, Columbia University	Pupin Physics Laboratories, also known as Pupin Hall is home to the physics and astronomy departments of the Columbia University in New York City and a National Historic Landmark. It was built in 1925-1927 to provide more space for the Physics Department which had originally been housed in Fayerweather Hall, and named for Serbian physicist Mihajlo Idvorski Pupin, who graduated with honors in 1883 at Columbia College, after his death in 1935. The building is located on the south side of 120th Street, just east of Broadway. It has been named a National Historic Landmark for its association with experiments relating to the splitting of the atom, achieved in connection with the later Manhattan Project. By 1931, the building which later became Pupin Hall was a leading research center. During this time Harold Urey (Nobel laureate in Chemistry) discovered deuterium and George Pegram was investigating the phenomena associated with the newly discovered neutron. In 1938, Enrico Fermi escaped fascist Italy after winning the Nobel prize for his work on induced radioactivity. In fact, he took his wife and children with him to Stockholm and immediately emigrated to New York. Shortly after arriving he began working at Columbia. His work on nuclear fission, together with I. I. Rabi's work on atomic and molecular physics, ushered in a golden era of fundamental research at the university. One of the country's first cyclotrons was built in the basement of Pupin Hall, where it remained until 2007. The building's historic significance was secured with the first splitting of a uranium atom in the United States, which was achieved by Enrico Fermi in Pupin Hall on January 25, 1939, just 10 days after the world's first such successful experiment, carried out in Copenhagen, Denmark. Pupin Hall is named after Mihajlo Idvorski Pupin (also known as Michael I. Pupin), a Serbian-American scientist and graduate of Columbia. Returning to the university's engineering school as a faculty member, he played a key role in establishing the department of electrical engineering. Pupin was also a brilliant inventor, developing methods for rapid x-ray photography and the "Pupin coil," a device for increasing the range of long-distance telephones. After his death in 1935, the university trustees named the newly constructed physics building the "Pupin Physics Laboratories" in his honor. The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1965.[4][5][6] In 2009 the American Physical Society named Pupin Hall a historic site and honored Isidor Isaac Rabi for his work in the field of magnetic resonance
Quarters A, Brooklyn Navy Yard	Quarters A, Brooklyn Navy Yard was the residence of the commander of the Brooklyn Navy Yard. It was home to Commodore Matthew C. Perry at the time of his opening of Japan.[3] Contrary to a popular misconception, Quarters A is not located on Admiral's Row; it is actually located in Vinegar Hill. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1974
Paul Robeson Home	The Paul Robeson Residence (also known as the Roger Morris building and by its street address of 555 Edgecombe Avenue) is a National Historic Landmarked building, located at 555 Edgecombe Avenue, in the Washington Heights neighborhood of the New York City borough of Manhattan in New York, United States. For the first 25 years of its existence, this building was restricted to only white tenants.[1] Around 1940, as the racial characteristics of the neighborhood changed, this rule changed and this building became well known for its famous African-American residents, including the musician Count Basie, boxer Joe Louis,[2] and the actor Paul Robeson.[3] Robeson lived here from 1939 to 1941. After his death in 1976, the building was landmarked in his honor.[6][7] It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976
Jackie Robinson House	Jackie Robinson House was a Brooklyn home of baseball great Jackie Robinson from 1947 when he was awarded Rookie of the Year with the Brooklyn Dodgers through 1949 when he was voted Most Valuable Player. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976. [2][3] Another house, at 112-40 177th Street in the Addisleigh Park neighborhood of Queens, was the Robinsons' home from 1949 to 1955. "Locals had recently canceled a restrictive covenant that forbade blacks from living in the area, so African-American stars such as jazz great Count Basie and Herbert Mills of the Mills Brothers quartet moved in." This other house is not currently landmarked, but may be included in a New York City Landmarks Commission historic district that is under review in 2008
Rockefeller Center	Rockefeller Center is a complex of 19 commercial buildings covering 22 acres (89,000 m2) between 48th and 51st streets in New York City, United States. Built by the Rockefeller family, it is located in the center of Midtown Manhattan, spanning the area between Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1987.
Sailors' Snug Harbor	Sailors' Snug Harbor, also known as Sailors Snug Harbor or Snug Harbor Cultural Center and Botanical Garden or, informally, Snug Harbor, is a collection of architecturally significant 19th-century buildings set in a park along the Kill Van Kull on the north shore of Staten Island in New York City, United States. It was once a home for aged sailors and is now an 83-acre (34 ha) city park. Some of the buildings and the grounds are used by arts organizations under the umbrella of the Snug Harbor Cultural Center and Botanical Garden. Sailors' Snug Harbor includes 26 Greek Revival, Beaux Arts, Italianate and Victorian style buildings. The site is considered Staten Island's "crown jewel"[4] and "an incomparable remnant of New York's 19th-century seafaring past."[5] It is a National Historic Landmark District.
St. Ann and the Holy Trinity Church	St. Ann's and the Holy Trinity Church is an historic Episcopal church located at the corner of Montague and Clinton streets in the Brooklyn Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City.
St. George's Episcopal Church	St. George's Episcopal Church is a historic church located at 209 East 16th Street at Rutherford Place, on Stuyvesant Square in Manhattan, New York City. Called "one of the first and most significant examples of Early Romanesque Revival church architecture in America",[5] the church exterior was designed by Charles Otto Blesch and the interior by Leopold Eidlitz. It is one of the two sanctuaries of the Calvary-St. George's Parish.
St. Patrick's Cathedral	The Cathedral of St. Patrick (commonly called St. Patrick's Cathedral) is a decorated Neo-Gothic-style Roman Catholic cathedral church in the United States and a prominent landmark of New York City. It is the seat of the archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and a parish church, located on the east side of Fifth Avenue between 50th and 51st Streets in midtown Manhattan, New York City, New York, directly across the street from Rockefeller Center and specifically facing the Atlas statue. According to Catholic News Service (CNS) and the Catholic News Agency (CNA), Cardinal Timothy Michael Dolan, the incumbent Archbishop of New York, announced before reviewing the city's parade on St. Patrick's Day 2012 that the Cathedral would undergo a massive five-year, three-phase, $175 million renovation because of crumbling bricks, faulty heating, and acid rain and pollution that has eaten away at the Tuckahoe marble of the 135-year-old church. Early donors and grants from the Archdiocese and the Trustees of the Cathedral have already raised $45 million for the first phase, which began in late March. This involves repairing, restoring, and cleaning the soot-covered exterior, and an extensive cleaning of the outside and inside surfaces of the stained glass windows. The Cathedral will remain open during the renovations and work will pause during Masses, according to the Cathedral's rector, Monsignor Robert T. Ritchie.[3][4]
St. Paul's Chapel	St. Paul's Chapel, is an Episcopal chapel located at 209 Broadway, between Fulton and Vesey Streets, in Lower Manhattan in New York City. It is the oldest surviving church building in Manhattan.
Margaret Sanger Clinic	The Margaret Sanger Clinic is a building at 17 West 16th Street, New York City, (Edward Mesier, architect, 1846) which housed the Clinical Research Bureau, where Margaret Sanger and her successors provided contraception services and conducted research from 1930 to 1973.[3] Margaret Sanger whose close friend Otto Bobsein is credited with first using the term "birth control"[2] in 1914, had over 30 nurses assisting patients and training other medical practitioners. The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1993.[2][4][5] It is now privately owned.
Gen. Winfield Scott House	General Winfield Scott House is where General and unsuccessful Whig Presidential candidate Winfield Scott lived from 1853 to 1855.[1] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1973.[2][3]
Seventh Regiment Armory	The Seventh Regiment Armory, located at 643 Park Avenue also known as Park Avenue Armory in New York, New York, United States, is a historic brick building that fills an entire city block on New York's Upper East Side.
Harry F. Sinclair House	The Harry F. Sinclair House is a mansion at 2 East 79th Street at Fifth Avenue, Manhattan, New York City, that houses the Ukrainian Institute of America, which promotes art and literature by hosting exhibitions open to public, among other means.
Alfred E. Smith House	The Alfred E. Smith House was the home of four time New York State governor, Alfred E. Smith from 1907 to 1923[2] It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1965.[2][3][4]
SoHo-Cast Iron Historic District	SoHo, sometimes spelled Soho,[2] is a neighborhood in Lower Manhattan, New York City, which in recent history came to the public's attention for being the location of many artists' lofts and art galleries, but is now more noted for its variety of shops ranging from trendy upscale boutiques to national and international chain store outlets. The area's history is an archetypal example of inner-city regeneration and gentrification, encompassing socio-economic, cultural, political and architectural developments.[3] Almost all of SoHo is included in the SoHo-Cast Iron Historic District, which was designated by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1973, extended in 2010, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and declared a National Historic Landmark in 1978.[4] It consists of 26 blocks and approximately 500 buildings,[5] many of them incorporating cast iron architectural elements. Many side streets in the district are paved with Belgian blocks.[6] The name "SoHo" refers to the area being "SOuth of HOuston (Street)", and was also a reference to the London district of Soho.[7] It was coined by Chester Rapkin,[8] an urban planner and author of the The South Houston Industrial Area study,[9] also known as the "Rapkin Report". This began a naming convention that became a model for the names of emerging and re-purposed neighborhoods in New York such as TriBeCa for "TRIangle BElow CAnal Street", DUMBO ("Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass"), NoHo ("NOrth of HOuston Street"), Nolita ("NOrth of Little ITAly") and NoMad ("NOrth of MADison Square"), among others.
A. T. Stewart Company Store	280 Broadway – also known as the A.T. Stewart Dry Goods Store, the Marble Palace, and the Sun Building – an historic building located between Chambers and Reade Streets in the Civic Center district of Manhattan, New York City,[1] was the first commercial building in the Italianate style in New York City. It was designed by John B. Snook of Joseph Trench & Company, with later additions by other architects. It was built for the A. T. Stewart Company, which opened New York's first department store in it.[2] It later housed the New York Sun newspaper and is now used for municipal offices and retail stores.[5] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1965,[4][6] and was designated a New York City landmark in 1986.[7]
Stonewall	The Stonewall Inn, often shortened to Stonewall, is a gay tavern and recreational bar in New York City and the site of the Stonewall riots of 1969, which is widely considered to be the single most important event leading to the gay liberation movement and the modern fight for gay and lesbian rights in the United States.[1] The original Inn, which closed in 1969, was located at 51–53 Christopher Street, between West 4th Street and Waverly Place, in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan. In 1990 a bar called "Stonewall" opened in the western half (53 Christopher Street). This was renovated and returned to its original name, "The Stonewall Inn", in 2007. The buildings are both part of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission's Greenwich Village Historic District, designated in 1969, and the Inn was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2000.
Surrogate's Court	The Surrogate's Courthouse, also known as the Hall of Records, is a Beaux Arts municipal building in lower Manhattan in New York City. Opened in 1907, it is located on the northwest corner of Chambers and Centre Streets, across the street from City Hall Park and from the Municipal Building. It houses the city's Municipal Archives, as well as providing courtrooms for the Surrogate's Court for New York County on the fifth floor.
Tenement Building at 97 Orchard Street	The Lower East Side Tenement Museum, located at 97 Orchard Street in the Lower East Side neighborhood of Manhattan New York City, is a National Historic Site. The five-story brick tenement building was home to an estimated 7,000 people, from over 20 nations, between 1863 and 1935. The museum, which includes a visitors' center down the block, promotes tolerance and historical perspective on the immigrant experience.
Third Judicial District Courthouse	The Jefferson Market Branch, New York Public Library, once known as the Jefferson Market Courthouse, is located at 425 Avenue of the Americas (Sixth Avenue), on the southwest corner of West 10th Street, in Greenwich Village, Manhattan, New York City, on a triangular plot formed by Greenwich Avenue and West 10th Street. It was originally built as the Third Judicial District Courthouse from 1874 to 1877, and was designed by architect Frederick Clarke Withers of the firm of Vaux and Withers. Faced with demolition in 1958, public outcry led to its reuse as a branch of the New York Public Library. The building is now part of the New York City Landmark Preservation Commission's Greenwich Village Historic District, created in 1969.[1] The AIA Guide to New York City calls the building "A mock Neuschwansteinian assemblage ... of leaded glass, steeply sloping roofs, gables, pinnacles, Venetian Gothic embellishments, and an intricate tower and clock; one of the City's most remarkable buildings."[4]
Tiffany and Company Building	The Tiffany and Company Building is the landmarked former home of the Tiffany and Company store at 401 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan, New York City, New York.[4] This building, completed in 1906, served as the home of Tiffany until 1940.[3] Today, a TD Bank branch, tchotchke shop, and Burger King occupy the ground level. The People's Court is filmed on a set inside the building.[5] The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1978.[3][6]
Samuel J. Tilden House	The Samuel J. Tilden House was the home of Samuel J. Tilden, former governor of the U.S. state of New York and fierce opponent of the Tweed Ring and Tammany Hall. Originally built in 1845, Tilden lived in the brownstone from 1860 until his death in 1886.[4][5] From 1881 to 1884,[6] Calvert Vaux combined it with the row house next door, also built in 1845, to make the building that now stands,[7] which has been described as "the height of Victorian Gothic in residential architecture" with Italian Renaissance style elements.[8] Tilden ran for president in 1876, winning the popular vote, but losing the electoral college to Rutherford B. Hayes. This was one of the end points of the Reconstruction. In those tumultuous times, he had both rolling steel doors and a secret escape tunnel.[9] Since 1906, the house has been occupied by the National Arts Club, a private arts club. The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966,[6] and declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.[3][4][5] It is located in the Gramercy Park Historic District.	
The Town Hall	The Town Hall is a performance space, located at 123 West 43rd Street, between Sixth Avenue and Broadway, in New York City. It opened on January 12, 1921, and seats approximately 1,500 people. In the 1930s the first public-affairs media programming originated here with the "America's Town Meeting of the Air" radio programs. In recognition of this the National Park Service placed the building on the National Register of Historic Places in 2012,[3] and designated it a National Historic Landmark in 2013
Triangle Shirtwaist Factory	The Brown Building is a ten-story building that is part of the campus of New York University (NYU). It is located at 23-29 Washington Place, between Greene Street and Washington Square East in Greenwich Village, New York City. It was built in 1900–01, designed by John Woolley in the neo-Renaissance style.[1] It was originally named the Asch Building after its owner, Joseph J. Asch.[3] The top three floors of the building were at one time occupied by the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory, which was the site of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire that killed 146 garment workers on March 25, 1911. The fire led to wide-ranging legislation requiring improved factory safety standards and helped spur the growth of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. The building survived the fire and was refurbished. Three plaques on the southeast corner of the building commemorate the men and women who lost their lives in the fire. NYU began to use the eighth floor of the building for a library and classrooms in 1916.[1] Real estate speculator and philanthropist Frederick Brown later bought the building and subsequently donated it to the university in 1929, where it was renamed as the Brown Building.[4][5][6][7] In 2002, the building was incorporated into the Silver Center for Arts and Science.[5] The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and was named a National Historical Landmark in 1991.[8][9] It was designated a New York City landmark in 2003.[10]
Trinity Church	Trinity Church, at 79 Broadway in lower Manhattan, is a historic, active, well-endowed[3] parish church in the Episcopal Diocese of New York. Trinity Church is near the intersection of Wall Street and Broadway, in New York City, New York.
Tweed Courthouse	The Old New York County Courthouse at 52 Chambers Street in Manhattan, New York City, more commonly known as the Tweed Courthouse, was built in Italianate style with Romanesque Revival interiors, using funds provided by the corrupt William M. "Boss" Tweed, whose Tammany Hall political machine controlled the city and state governments at the time. The outer shell of the building was constructed from 1861–1872 by the architect John Kellum, with the political appointee Thomas Little.[4] Construction was interrupted when the kickbacks and corruption involved in the construction of the building were disclosed to the public. The project was completed by architect Leopold Eidlitz who added the rear wing and interior renovations from 1877–1881, departing from Kellum's classicism with "an American version of organic architecture expressed through medieval forms".[5] The building was designated a New York City landmark and added to the National Register of Historic Places, both in 1984, when it was called "one of the city's grandest and most important civic monuments".[5] It was named a National Historic Landmark in 1986.[3][6][7] Modern restoration and historic preservation of the courthouse were completed in 2001, and the building is now home to the New York City Department of Education. The Tweed Courthouse is the second oldest city government building in Manhattan, after City Hall.[8]
Union Square	Union Square is an important and historic intersection in Manhattan in New York City, New York, located where Broadway and the former Bowery Road – now Fourth Avenue[4] – came together in the early 19th century; its name celebrates neither the Federal union of the United States nor labor unions but rather denotes that "here was the union of the two principal thoroughfares of the island".[5] Today, Union Square Park is bounded by 14th Street on the south, Union Square West on the west side, 17th Street on the north, and on the east Union Square East, which links together Broadway and Park Avenue South to Fourth Avenue and the continuation of Broadway. The park is under the aegis of the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. The neighborhoods around the square are the Flatiron District to the north, Chelsea to the west, Greenwich Village to the southwest, East Village to the southeast, and Gramercy to the east. Many buildings of The New School are near the square,[6] as are several dormitories of New York University.[7] The eastern side of the square is dominated by the four Zeckendorf Towers, on the former site of the bargain-priced department store, S. Klein, and the south side by the full-square block mixed-use One Union Square South (Davis Brody Bond, 1999).[8] It features a kinetic wall sculpture and digital clock expelling bursts of steam, titled Metronome. Among the heterogeneous assortment of buildings along the west side is the Decker Building. Union Square is noted for its impressive equestrian statue of U.S. President George Washington, modeled by Henry Kirke Brown and unveiled in 1856, the first public sculpture erected in New York City since the equestrian statue of George III in 1770, and the first American equestrian sculpture cast in bronze. The historic moment depicted is Evacuation Day, November 25, 1783, when the British left the city and General Washington triumphantly led his troops back into the city.[9] Other statues in the park include the Marquis de Lafayette, modeled by Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi and dedicated at the Centennial, July 4, 1876, Abraham Lincoln, modeled by Henry Kirke Brown (1870), and the James Fountain (1881), a Temperance fountain with the figure of Charity who empties her jug of water, aided by a child; it was donated by Daniel Willis James and sculpted by Adolf Donndorf. A statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the southwest corner of the park was added in 1986. Union Square lies over the 14th Street – Union Square subway station, served by the 4 5 6 <6> L N Q R trains.
United Charities Building	The United Charities Building, also known as United Charities Building Complex, at 105 East 22nd Street or 287 Park Avenue South, in the Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City, near the border of the Flatiron District, was built in 1893 by John S. Kennedy, a wealthy banker, for the Charity Organization Society.
U.S. Customhouse	The Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House is a building in New York City built 1902–1907 by the federal government to house the duty collection operations for the port of New York. It is located near the southern tip of Manhattan, roughly on the same spot as Fort Amsterdam, the original center of the settlement of New Amsterdam. Its address is 1 Bowling Green. The building is now the home of the New York branch of the National Museum of the American Indian as well as the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. As of 2012, it is also the home to the National Archives at New York City.
Van Cortlandt House	The Van Cortlandt House Museum, also known as Frederick Van Cortlandt House or Van Cortlandt House, is the oldest building in The Bronx, New York City. The house was built in the Georgian style by Frederick Van Cortlandt (1699–1749) in 1748 for his family. Van Cortlandt died before its completion and the property was inherited by his son, James Van Cortlandt (1727–1787). It is a 2 1⁄2-story, L-shaped house with a double hipped roof. It was built in 1748 of dressed fieldstone and is representative of the high Georgian style.[3] The Van Cortlandts, a mercantile family prominent in New York affairs, established a grain plantation and grist mill on the property. The house was used during the Revolutionary War by Rochambeau, Lafayette, and Washington. In 1889, after 140 years of occupancy by the Van Cortlandt family, the property was sold to the City of New York and made a public parkland. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1967 and became a National Historic Landmark in 1976.[2][4] The house has been operated as a historic house museum since 1897, the first in the city and fourth in the country.
Voorlezer's House	The Voorlezer's House is a historic clapboard frame house in Historic Richmond Town in Staten Island, New York. It was acquired by the museum in 1939 and then restored to its original period of 1696-1701. It was first opened to the public on April 14, 1942 and then again after its second restoration on June 27, 1985. It is the oldest known schoolhouse in America, although it became a private residence for more than a century, and it is now owned and operated by the Staten Island Historical Society. It was built before 1696, and the date of the patent on which it is located is 1680. "Voorlezer" is a Dutch word that can be translated as "fore-reader" or as "one who reads (to others)". A Voorlezer or Voorleser was the title given to a highly responsible citizen in New Netherland and later Dutch settlements in North America, who had semi-official duties in local law, education and religion. The title was predominantly used from the mid-17th century to the late 18th century; in the small colonial villages. A Voorlezer could maintain many tasks; be an assistant to a pastor, or in the absence of a pastor, hold religious services and read scriptures, or run a school. Though well-maintained for many years, by 1936 it had fallen into disrepair and was threatened with demolition. It became a National Historic Landmark in 1961 and was added to National Register of Historic Places when that registry was created in 1966.[2][3][4]
Wards Point Archeological Site	Ward's Point is the southernmost point of New York State in Tottenville, Staten Island, across Arthur Kill from Perth Amboy, New Jersey at the head of Raritan Bay.
Woodlawn Cemetery	Woodlawn Cemetery is one of the largest cemeteries in New York City and is a designated National Historic Landmark. A rural cemetery located in the northern New York City borough of The Bronx, it opened in 1863,[1] in what was then southern Westchester County, in an area that was later annexed to New York City in 1874.[citation needed] The Cemetery covers more than 400 acres (160 ha)[1] and is the resting place for more than 300,000 people. It is also the site of the "Annie Bliss Titanic Memorial", dedicated to those who perished in the 1912 maritime disaster. Built on rolling hills, its tree-lined roads lead to some unique memorials, some designed by famous American architects: McKim, Mead & White, John Russell Pope, James Gamble Rogers, Cass Gilbert, Carrère and Hastings, Sir Edwin Lutyens, Beatrix Jones Farrand, and John LaFarge. The cemetery contains seven British Commonwealth war graves - six officers of the British Army of World War I and an airman of the Royal Canadian Air Force of World War II.[2] As of 2007, plot prices at Woodlawn were reported as $200 per square foot, $4,800 for a gravesite for two, and up to $1.5 million for land to build a family mausoleum.[3] In 2011, Woodlawn Cemetery was designated a National Historic Landmark, since it shows the transition from the rural cemetery popular at the time of its establishment to the more orderly 20th-century cemetery style.
Woolworth Building	The Woolworth Building, at 233 Broadway, Manhattan, New York City, designed by architect Cass Gilbert and completed in 1913, is an early US skyscraper. The original site for the building was purchased by F. W. Woolworth and his real estate agent Edward J. Hogan by April 15, 1910, from the Trenor Luther Park Estate and other owners for $1.65 million. By January 18, 1911, Woolworth and Hogan had acquired the final site for the project, totaling $4.5 million. More than a century after the start of its construction, it remains, at 241.4 meters (792 ft), one of the fifty tallest buildings in the United States as well as one of the twenty tallest buildings in New York City. It has been a National Historic Landmark since 1966,[4][5][6] and a New York City landmark since 1983.[7]
Wyckoff House	The Wyckoff House, or Pieter Claesen Wyckoff House is located at 5816 Clarendon Road in the Canarsie area of Brooklyn. The house itself is located in Milton Fidler Park. The house is estimated to have been built in 1652, it is the oldest surviving example of a Dutch saltbox frame house in America, and was one of the first structures built by Europeans on Long Island. The majority of the current structure was added in the 19th century, with the small kitchen section dating back to the 18th century. Only a small section remains from 1652.[3] It is on land that Wouter van Twiller purchased from the local Lenape people in approximately 1636.[3] (Europeans often referred to the native inhabitants simply by the Lenape language place name for the larger area: "Canarsie", in this case) It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1967.[2][3] It is owned by New York City but is operated by The Wyckoff House & Association.[4] It is believed that every person with the name Wyckoff (or its variations) has descended from Pieter (Claessen) Wyckoff from this house. Pieter Claessen was forced to change his surname sometime after 1664 and chose "Wyckoff." At that time there were no other known Wyckoffs. There are some 60 known variations of the name that appeared between 1790 and 1900 (after which, no new variations appeared).[5]
Wyckoff-Bennett Homestead	Wyckoff-Bennett Homestead, located at 1669 E. 22nd Street in Flatlands, Brooklyn, New York, is a National Historic Landmark. It is believed to have been built before 1766. During the American Revolution, it housed Hessian soldiers, two of whom, Captain Toepfer of the Ditfourth regiment and Lieut. M. Bach of the Hessen-Hanau Artillerie, scratched their names and units into windowpanes. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.[2][3] According to an embroidered needlepoint artwork currently on display in the main home building, it was owned and occupied by the Wyckoff Family from 1776 to 1835. The Bennett family owned and occupied it from 1835 to 1983, and the Mont family has owned and occupied it since 1983. The property is one of the last privately owned Dutch Colonial houses in New York City. Starting sometime around the year 2000 the City of New York planned to buy the house and land from its present owners, Annette and Stuart Mont, who would have remained on the property rent-free but those plans have since fallen through.[4]
USS Edson&(DD-946)	USS Edson (DD-946) was a Forrest Sherman-class destroyer of the United States Navy, built by Bath Iron Works in Maine in 1958. Her home port was Long Beach, California and she initially served in the Western Pacific/Far East, operating particularly in the Taiwan Strait and off the coast of Vietnam. Her exceptionally meritorious service in 1964 in the Gulf of Tonkin was recognized with the first of three Navy Unit Commendations. During the following years she was shelled by North Vietnamese land forces, and apparently received friendly fire from the US Air Force. Following an onboard fire in 1974, Edson returned to the West Pacific and was later commended for her roles in the evacuation of Phnom Penh and Saigon. She was decommissioned in 1988, but the following year became a museum ship at the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum in New York. Returning to Navy lay-up in 2004, it was agreed in 2012 that she should again become a museum ship, at Bay City, Michigan.
Florence Mills House	Florence Mills House at 220 West 135th Street was believed to be where Florence Mills, 1896–1927, lived from 1910 to 1927. She was a leading African-American actress and entertainer during the 1920s.[4] She lived at this address, or a similar address a few blocks away, during her most productive years. The 220 West 135th Street building that existed in 1927 no longer stands and has been replaced. The site was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1976.[3] The designation was withdrawn in 2009.
Fire Fighter	Fire Fighter is a fireboat serving the New York City Fire Department. She was an active fireboat serving as Marine Company 9 until being retired in 2010. She was the most powerful diesel-electric fireboat when built in 1938. She has fought more than 50 fires, including upon the SS Normandie in 1942.[3]